doc: remove Notary v2 reference (#262)
notaryproject/notaryproject: requirements/scenarios.md

# Notary Project Signing Scenarios

As containers and cloud native artifacts become the common unit of deployment, users want to know the artifacts in their environments are authentic and unmodified.

> These Notary Project scenarios define end-to-end scenarios for signing artifacts in a generalized way, storing and moving them between OCI compliant registries, validating them with various artifact hosts and tooling.

Reviewer: It seems that `Notary Project` becomes a special term as `P` is in upper case. If so, will it be grammatically correct to say `The Notary Project`?

> Notary Project focuses on the signing of content, enabling e2e workflows, without specifying what those workflows must be.

Reviewer 2: The Notary Project focues on...

> The Notary Project focuses on the signing of content, enabling e2e workflows, without specifying what those workflows must be.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Notary Project focuses on the signing of content, enabling end-to-end (e2e) workflows, without specifying what those workflows must be.
```

By developing a generalized solution, artifact authors may develop their unique artifact types, allowing them to leverage Notary for signing and OCI Compliant registries for distribution.

## Scenarios

> Notary Project aims to solve the core issue of trusting content within, and across registries.

Reviewer 2: The Notary Project aims to solve...

> There are many elements of an end to end scenario that are not implemented by Notary Project specification implementation, rather enabled because the content is verifiable.

Reviewer: What is "specification implementation"? Are using referring the spec or the reference implementation (i.e. `notation`)?

Author: Updated it to `implementations of the Notary Project specification`

> There are many elements of an end to end scenario that are not implemented by Notary Project specification implementation, rather enabled because the content is verifiable.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are many elements of an e2e scenario that are not implemented by Notary Project specification implementation, rather enabled because the content is verifiable.
```

### Scenario #0: Build, Publish, Consume, Enforce Policy, Deploy

> To put Notary Project in context, the following end-to-end scenario is outlined.

Reviewer 2: To put the Notary Project in context...

> The blue elements are the scope of Notary Project, with the other elements providing generic references to other projects or products that demonstrate how Notary Project may be utilized.

Reviewer 2: The blue elements are the scope of the Notary Project, with the other elements providing generic references to other projects or products that demonstrate how the Notary Project may be utilized.

1. The Wabbit Networks company builds their `net-monitor` software.
      - As a result of the build, they produce an [OCI Image][oci-image], a Software Bill of Materials (`SBoM`) and to comply with gpl licensing, produce another artifact which contains the source (`src`) to all the gpl licensed projects.
      - The `SBoM` and `src` artifacts are created as reference types to the image, creating a graph of artifacts.
      - Each of the artifacts are signed with the wabbit-networks key.

> 2. The Wabbit Networks signed contents are pushed to a public OCI compliant registry.

Reviewer 2: Looks like your markdown linter updated the bullets, making it harder for future edits. 
Can you revert the incremental numbering, for this line and those below, to all be `1.` and let markdown renders resolve the ordering?

Author: I think I need to disable the linter, since it updated the numbering and TOC automatically.

> 2. The Wabbit Networks signed contents are pushed to a public OCI compliant registry.

Reviewer: `1.`?

Author: Sorry. It was automatically changed by the editor, not sure how to disable it, but I will fix it manually for now.

4. The ACME Rockets environment may enforce various policies prior to deployment:
      - Evaluating the content in the `SBoM` for policies on specific packages.
      - ACME Rockets only allows content signed by ACME Rockets to be deployed, and only from the registry identified in the ACME Rockets signature.
      - Once validated, the `src` and `SBoM` are no longer needed for deployment allowing the `image` to be deployed separately with it's own signature.
5. Once the policy manager completes its validation (k8s ingress controller with OPA), the deployment to the hosting environment is initiated.
      - ACME Rockets runs in an air-gapped environment, requiring all key access to be resolved within their environment.

**Implications of this requirement:**

- Signatures can be placed on any type of [artifact](artifacts-repo) stored in an OCI compliant registry using an [OCI Manifest][oci-manifest]
- Signatures can be persisted as references to the [OCI Manifest][oci-manifest], allowing a entity to define a collection of artifacts.

> - Signatures and their public keys can be moved within, and across OCI compliant registries which support Notary signature.

Reviewer 4: > which support Notary signature

Is that supposed to be "Notary signatures" or "a Notary signature". It's not clear if it's one, many, or some other meaning.

Author: I will update it to `the Notary signature` which is defined by the Notary signature specification. cc @toddysm  for comments.

Author: As clarified https://github.com/notaryproject/.github/issues/35, it should be `Notary Project signatures`,

- The artifact can be renamed from the unique build id `net-monitor:abc123` to a product versioned tag `wabbitnetworks.example.com/networking/net-monitor:1.0` without invalidating the signature.
- Users may reference the `sha256` digest directly, or the `artifact:tag`.
  While tag locking is not part of the [OCI Distribution Spec][oci-distribution], various registries support this capability, allowing users to reference human readable tags, as opposed to long digests.

>   Either reference is supported with Notary Project, however it's the unique manifest that is signed.

Reviewer 2: Either reference is supported with the Notary Project,

> - Notary Project supports a pattern for signing any type of artifact, from OCI Images, Helm Charts, Singularity to yet unknown types.

Reviewer 2: The Notary Project supports a pattern for signing...

   The scenario simply calls out a compromise that must be discoverable through forensic logging of who, when and what was pushed.
   The logged updates must include previous digests that represented updated tags allowing a registry, or external tools, to reset its original state.
1. A registry may choose to make repos, or the entire registry, restricted to pushing only signed content, and potentially only signed content with one or more keys.

>    Notary Project doesn't require this capability, rather highlights the scenario for registry operators to innovate means to secure from this scenario.

Reviewer 2: The Notary Project doesn't require this capability,

>    Notary Project doesn't require this capability, rather highlights the scenario for registry operators to innovate means to secure from this scenario.

Reviewer 4: Is it the _Notary Project_ that doesn't require the capability or the specification?

Author: Thanks. Update it to `The Notary Project`. cc @toddysm for comments.

Author: @mattfarina This sentence is under `Scenario #7: Repository Compromise - Non Signed Content`. It depends on the implementation or registries for security, so I rephased the sentence to below:

```
A registry may choose to restrict repositories or the entire registry to pushing only signed content, and 
potentially only signed content with one or more keys. With this, attackers cannot push unsigned content to 
the registry, mitigating the threat described by scenario #7
```

>    The Notary Project doesn't require this capability, rather highlights the scenario for registry operators to innovate means to secure from this scenario.

Reviewer 3: This sentence doesn't read clearly (its previous iteration didn't either). In the context of the scenario as described, "this capability" is not well defined as multiple features and capabilities of the Notary Project are covered throughout the scenario. I believe this refers to restrictions on pushing signed content (due to contextual placement) but the caveat "registry operators to innovate means to secure this scenario" implies the context refers to the entirety of the scenario described, not of the restriction.  Of key importance also is that this conveys to potential adopters that there is _yet more work to be done_ that is not covered by the Notary Project but doesn't precisely detail what is meant by "innovating the means to secure from this scenario".

Author: This sentence is under `Scenario #7: Repository Compromise - Non Signed Content`, so the scenario in the sentence means `Sceanrio #7`. It depends on the implementation or registries for security, so I rephased the sentence to below:

```
A registry may choose to restrict repositories or the entire registry to pushing only signed content, and 
potentially only signed content with one or more keys. With this, attackers cannot push unsigned content to 
the registry, mitigating the threat described by scenario #7
```

**Implications of this requirement:**

1. All Notary Project specification implementations support key revocation as part of their implementation to assure signed content is still valid content.
1. Registry operators routinely check for revoked keys and remediate the exploited content.

> 1. Notary Project specification implementations routinely check for revoked keys and block the content.

Reviewer 2: The Notary Project specification implementations routinely

Author: I will update it to the `implementations of the Notary Project specification`. Is it better?

> 1. Notary Project specification implementations routinely check for revoked keys and block the content.

Reviewer: Will it be better to say "implementations of the Notary Project specification"?

This key may be distributed using a trusted third party mechanism.

1. The user obtains a trusted key for a particular artifact.

> 1. The user downloads and verifies the artifact using Notary Project specification implementation and their known key.

Reviewer 2: The user downloads and verifies the artifact using the Notary Project specification implementation

Author: I will update it to `implementations of the Notary Project specification`

> 1. The user downloads and verifies the artifact using implementations of the Notary Project specification and their known key.

Reviewer 3: What is the known key in this context?  I don't see any definitions of this or the others terms used in the Scenarios defined. Is this the user's private key or the Signatory's public key or something else altogether?

If a user does not have a specific key for a given artifact, verified using a third party system, they will need to determine the trusted signing key(s) for an artifact by chaining from a trusted key.

1. The user determines the trusted key(s) for a specific artifact using delegations from a trusted root.

> 1. The user downloads and verifies an artifact using Notary Project specification implementation and the trusted key(s) discovered in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: The user downloads and verifies an artifact using the Notary Project specification implementation ...

Author: I will update it to `implementations of the Notary Project specification`
